miszka: retain at rank I (#114)
polkadot-fellows/Evaluations: evidence/miszka/0002-miszka-retain-I-2025-01-24.md

| **Submitted by**| Michał Kucharczyk                                                                           |

## Member details

- Matrix username: `@michal:parity.io`
- Polkadot address: [14T9NGF7LdCY7SK2j6oNXmB9NqfKYyrxBChUvYRjtFdvZBMo](https://collectives.statescan.io/#/accounts/14T9NGF7LdCY7SK2j6oNXmB9NqfKYyrxBChUvYRjtFdvZBMo)
- Current rank: 1
- Date of initial induction: `2024/06/02`
- Date of last report: `2024/10/02`
- Area(s) of Expertise/Interest: `Substrate node` ,`Transaction Pool`, `ChainSpec/GenesisConfig`

## Reporting period

- Start date: 2024/10/02
- End date: 2024/01/24

## Evidence

The fork-aware transaction pool implementation, introduced in [pull request #4639](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/4639), has been successfully merged. I have published a [post](https://forum.polkadot.network/t/the-fork-aware-transaction-pool/10468) that provides a concise summary of this new transaction pool, explaining the necessity behind its development, the issues encountered with the previous implementation, and guidance on how to operate it. Additionally, the post includes links to the existing documentation for further reference.

> The next milestone is achieving (feature completeness)[https://github.com/orgs/paritytech/projects/156/views/6], ensuring that transaction pool handles most edge cases correctly. Throughout the reporting period, I have focused on enhancing a fork-aware transaction pool to tackle the objectives detailed in the follow-up [ticket](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/issues/5472). My primary goal was to tackle the challenge of properly handling the limits of the transaction pool and transactions' priorities. During high-pressure situations, the transaction pool should accept higher-priority transactions and remove those with lower priority, preventing it from getting clogged with stalled transactions.

Author: ```suggestion
The next milestone is achieving [feature completeness](https://github.com/orgs/paritytech/projects/156/views/6), ensuring that transaction pool handles most edge cases correctly. Throughout the reporting period, I have focused on enhancing a fork-aware transaction pool to tackle the objectives detailed in the follow-up [ticket](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/issues/5472). My primary goal was to tackle the challenge of properly handling the limits of the transaction pool and transactions' priorities. Durinhttps://github.com/paritytech/devops/issues/3760g high-pressure situations, the transaction pool should accept higher-priority transactions and remove those with lower priority, preventing it from getting clogged with stalled transactions.
```
